---
layout: post
title: 24-01 Định Nghĩa
chapter: '24'
order: 2
owner: YoungJae Choung
categories:
- chapter24
lang: vi
---

This section aims to explain the basic concepts for solving optimization problems through the mixed integer program approach.

## Problem definition
When some variables in an optimization model have the constraint of being integers, this is called an integer program.
> $$
> \begin{align}
> &\min_{x} && f(x) \\\\
> &\text{subject to } && x \in C \\\\
> &&&x_{j} \in \mathbb{Z}, j \in J
> \end{align}
> $$
> $$
> \begin{align}
> \text{where } f: \mathbb{R}^{n} \rightarrow \mathbb{R}, \quad C \subseteq \mathbb{R}^{n} \quad and \quad J \subseteq {1, \dotsc, n}. 
> \end{align}
> $$


In the above expression, if $$J$$ satisfies the following, it is called a pure integer program.
> $$ J =$$ \{ $$1, \dotsc, n$$ \} 


Let us assume that both $$f$$ and $$C$$ discussed in this section are convex.


## Binary variables
Looking at some representative examples of integer programs, we can mention yes/no decision problems or logical values.
In this case, we define the problem using binary variables and solve the problem to find values of 0 or 1 for the conditions. 

The combinatorial optimization to be introduced next is directly associated with integer programming. This is because by utilizing binary variables, we can transform existing problems and solve them as new problems.

Combinatorial optimization problems are defined using the triple $$(N, \mathcal{F}, c)$$ representation.<br>
> * $$ \quad N$$ is a finite ground set<br>
* $$ \quad \mathcal{F} \subseteq 2^{N}$$ is the set of feasible solutions<br>
* $$ \quad c \in \mathbb{R}^{N}$$ is the cost function<br>

The ultimate goal is to solve the following equation through the triple $$(N, \mathcal{F}, c)$$.

> $$
> \begin{align}
\quad \min_{S \in \mathcal{F}} & \sum_{i \in S} c_{i} \\
> \end{align}
> $$

많은 결sum optimization(combinatorial optimization) problem는 binary integer program들to, being used,질 수있다.
