---
layout: post
title: 02-01-02 Affine set
chapter: "02"
order: 3
owner: "Wontak Ryu"
---

An affine set is a collection with no boundaries, such as a point, line, plane, or hyperplane. To determine if a set is affine, check if the line passing through any two points in the set is also contained within the set. The absence of boundaries means that if any space has a boundary, it cannot be an affine set. Let's define this mathematically.

## Affine set

A set $$C \subseteq \mathbb{R}^n$$ is an **affine set** if for any two points $$x_1, x_2 \in C$$, the line passing through them is also in $$C$$:
> $$\theta x_1 + (1-\theta)x_2 \in C$$ with $$\theta \in \mathbb{R}$$

This can be interpreted as a linear combination of two points in $$C$$, where the sum of the coefficients is 1. If the result is always in $$C$$, then $$C$$ is an affine set.

## Affine combination

A linear combination of several points where the sum of the coefficients is 1 is called an **affine combination**:
> $$\theta_1 x_1 + \theta_2 x_2 + \cdots + \theta_k x_k \in C$$ with $$\theta_1 + \theta_2 + \cdots + \theta_k = 1$$

If every affine combination of points in a set $$C$$ is also in $$C$$, then $$C$$ is an affine set.

## Affine hull

The set of all affine combinations of points in $$C \subseteq \mathbb{R}^n$$ is called the **affine hull** of $$C$$, denoted as **aff** $$C$$:
> $$ \text{aff} (C) = \{ \theta_1 x_1 + \cdots + \theta_k x_k \mid x_1, ..., x_k \in C, \theta_1 + \cdots + \theta_k = 1 \} $$

## Relationship between affine set and subspace

If $$C$$ is an affine set and $$x_0 \in C$$, then $$V = C - x_0$$ is a subspace:
> $$V = C - x_0 =  \{ x - x_0 \mid x \in C \}$$

Thus, "An affine set $$C$$ is a translation of a linear subspace $$V$$ by $$x_0$$," where $$x_0$$ can be any point in $$C$$. The dimension of $$C$$ is the same as that of $$V$$.

#### [Reference] Proof that $$V$$ is a subspace

To prove $$V$$ is a subspace, show that it is closed under addition and scalar multiplication. That is, for $$v_1, v_2 \in V$$ and $$\alpha, \beta \in \mathbb{R}$$, $$\alpha v_1 + \beta v_2 \in V$$. This follows from the definition above.
